Welcome back everyone in this lecture we're going to show you a simple coding example of cap m the capital
asset pricing model.
Let's open up a Jupiter notebook and get started.
OK.
As we discussed before we can almost treat kep him as a simple linear regression.
So what we'll do is we'll save from side pie import stats.
Go ahead and run that.
And if you want to check out the actual functional are we going to be using it's going to be Lin regress
or linear regression offs that so if you say Help stat's thought linear regression you'll see the help
on this function.
Basically it just calculates a linear regression using least squares with some x and some y.
So let's go ahead and get our data passed in and kind of play around with this.
So I'll say import Pandurs as PD and then we're also going to import Pandurs data reader as web and
then we're going to get the spy ETF data reader say spy use Google as our source.
And this is going to give us an index and basically what this index actually is is the market.
So you can use different indices as the market.
Most commonly it's the S&P 500.
So spies essentially ETF in that care of that.
So if you take a look at Spy ETF just the info of it we have about 2000 entries for open high low close
etc. for entries for close in volume.
And if we check out what the actual spike values look like Chika the head of this we can see open high
low and close and volume.
So this spy is going to be an indicator.
It's not the actual S&P 500 values.
It's an exchange traded fund which represents the S&P 500.
So let's go ahead and create a start date so say PD to date time and we're passing 2010 0 1 0 4 so that's
our starting day of this exchange traded fund.
And if we take a look at the tail of this there anything that looks to be like 2017 so 25 that's fine
as well.
We'll do that.
PD to date time 2017 07 5 so run that and let's say our portfolio strategy is just to completely invest
in Apple.
We'll see Apple web data reader grow Apple stock using Google's API will say start and end and then
once we've done that we can check out the head of the state of frame and we can see we have open high
low close volume.
So cap em basically says that there should be some relationship between Apple's stock performance and
the overall market performance.
So let's go ahead and check that out.
Well first try to see this visually by saying that plotless pipeline as Piazzi not polyp in line.
And then I'm going to say the closing price of Apple plotted out and using google it automatically gives
you the adjusted close price so just keep that in mind.
We'll label this apple we'll sort the figure size here to be let's say 10 by 8 and then our spy exchange
traded fund will say close will plot that out and let's give this a label of spy index.
Essentially our market will say peel t legends run that.
So here I can see Apple and the actual index of the S&P market 500 or at least an exchange traded fund
which essentially mimics its behavior.
Now what we want to know using cap M is the beta and alpha values so we can do is actually compare these
two.
So it's going to compare first Their cumulative return.
So to do that I can say Apple
cumulative is equal to Apple's close price divided by Apple's close price on the very first day that
I'm going to copy and paste this for the S&P 500 so spy T.F. will come down here.
Changes to spy T.F. as well and change this to Spight here.
So we're on those calculate cumulative will plot the so and the label will be Apple and then we'll say
fixed size here is equal to 10 by 8s and then we're going to say Spight T.F. also grab the cumulative
column and then it will plot that as well.
Now let's get the label of spy for the S&P 500 exchange traded fund Piazzi legends run that.
OK.
So this is the cumulative return basically had I invested $1 at the beginning towards 2011 how much
would I have in 2017.
So you can see here if you just invested in the S&P 500 you would have done well you would have gotten
some returns but not nearly as well as a few to invest in Apple stock.
OK.
So let's go ahead and check out the daily return for these two.
We'll see.
Apple Daily return number that's simply just the clothes price and then the percent change from one
day to the other.
So say percent change one.
I'm going to copy and paste this for the spy ETF as well.
He'll say spite of spite T.F. OK we'll run those and then we'll take a scatterplot of them and see if
there's any correlation.
Just visually here.
So the return spy T.F. daily return.
And then we're going to provide an alpha of let's say zero point to five because we're gonna have a
ton of points.
All right.
So if there was like a perfect correlation we would imagine we'd see some sort of linear behavior here.
Now it looks like there's some slight correlation.
One of the values here cetera but it's be interesting to see.
Using a linear regression What's the actual beta value.
So let's go ahead and actually calculate that.
So we're going to say Beta Khama Alpha is basically tuple and packing our value p value and then standard
error is equal to.
So those are all things that this that's linear regression returns.
We're really only concerned about beta and Alpha we'll see Alpha or excuse me Apple Daily return and
we can't passen no values.
So we're going to use I Alosi to grab everything beyond that first row and then we're going to do the
same for spies will say spite if they return.
Let's go ahead and start a new line here.
So we have no space for the return.
And again I also see because we can't Pessin null values there run that.
And if we check our beta value it says 0.1 9 and over Cheka our alpha value it is close to zero as expected.
But it is there is something there.
So keep in mind with 0.1 9 it basically moves along the market along the speed of value and everything
else that's not there can be described with this alpha and we can all seen our value so for how well
these actually fit.
So if I were to fit a line between these two axes here it have an R squared value of point 3 3.
So obviously not a very good fit.
OK so what do we expect if our stock was very much in line of the market.
So let's imagine we have some sort of stock which pretty much behaves just like the market you expect
it to have a really high beta value.
So we're going to do is going to create some artificial noise for stock data and then try to make it
line up a lot with the actual stock market and see if we get a higher beta value and that will basically
confirm that the cap and model is working as we expect it to.
So again if I just took out my dealer returns here the head of them have these kind of daily return
values.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to import some pie and P and I'm going to create some noise and this
noise is just going to be random.
Normal So it's going to be normally distributed.
And if you use random but normal is that a random thought ran then you can set a location and a scale
which basically is the mean and the kind of variance for standardization you expect.
So you can set a mean interesting deviation so let's add the mean around 0.
Now let's set the standard deviation to be points there is are one kind of in line if these daily return
values and then we're going to create the length of this to be the same as spy UTF they return everything
past the first row.
So now if I take a look at my noise basically have an array of random noise that I'm going to add on
to this day they return.
So if I say spy ETF they they return I'll see one colon Plus this noise.
I now get a little bit of noise added to this daily return.
So let's go ahead and set that up.
Something else I will say this is
some fake stock.
All right.
So we're going to do now is if I plot out we'll say peel to scatter and I'm going to create a scatterplot
of my fake stock against my spy ETF and let's give it an alpha value of zero point to five.
Let's make sure the Spight T.F. is actually just daily return column ILO's see what Colin.
So we run this in now we can see we have very much a linear behavior here.
So that makes sense because the stock is essentially daily returns with some noise added to it.
So this with here that we see along this plot is that noise.
So given that this relationship is very clear we should expect to have an extremely high beta value.
And if you had more noise here so if you say like point 0 0 2 etc. This will get noisier noisier.
But right now we just really want to prove to you the cap works.
So let's go ahead and grab this equation again and scroll down here.
Paste it in and now instead of the apple return we're going to say pass and this fake stock so far on
this and I check my beta value.
It's almost 1 which makes sense because thake stock almost lines up exactly with the daily returns of
this index because it's just the daily returns with some noise added on to it.
So if you have a particular stock that moves in line of the index a lot your beta value is expected
to be really high.
And if that's also the case then you would expect your Alphaville to be extremely small.
In this case it is so we have negative 2.4 times tends of the power of negative 5.
So you can imagine that this Alpha is a lot smaller than what we got previously.
And if we take a look at the previous beta values versus the alpha values there's quite a difference
there.
So basically what they're saying is cap them is working as expected here because if you have a stock
that lines up with an index or the market itself you'll have a really high beta value.
Now the idea behind our algorithmic trading is that we're going to be able to at least work through
some sort of system that can have a stronger Alpha value.
OK we'll discover all of that when we talk about working with Quanto in.
But for now this is all we really need to know.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.